---
categories: python
date: 2013/12/16 22:20:00
title: Python in the wide world week - day 1, XBMC
---

In an effort to actually post something here, I have decided to do a series of
"XXX week" posts. Starting off with a "Python in the wide world week", I'll be
exploring some interesting places where Python is used in the real world.

## [XBMC]

<a href="http://xbmc.org/about/"><img src="/images/xbmc_about.jpg" alt="XBMC"></a>

### What is XBMC?

[XBMC] is a free and [open source](https://github.com/xbmc/xbmc) media player
developed by the [XBMC foundation](http://xbmc.org/about/xbmc-foundation/).
While it was originally created as a media center for the [original Xbox gaming
console](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xbox) (hence the name **XB**ox **M**edia
**C**enter), it is now natively available on Windows, various Linux
distributions, Mac OSX, Android, Raspberry Pi, iOS, Apple TV and Apple TV 2
([download link](http://xbmc.org/download/)). If that is not enough for you,
XMBC also features it's own (Ubuntu based) Linux distribution so you can easily
carry XBMC on your USB key/disk if you wish so.

[XBMC] became so popular that it spawned [loads of
forks](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=Third-party_forks_and_derivatives),
many of which are now separate products with many users.

I personally use [XBMC] on my Home Theatre PC (HTPC) for watching movies
comfortably, using my Android phone with
[Yatse](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.leetzone.android.yatsewidgetfree&hl=en)
as a remote.

### Where is Python used?

The core for [XBMC] is written in C++, but it [uses
Python](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=Python_development) for its many
wonderful [add-ons](http://addons.xbmc.org/), which offer everything from
scrapping for metadata, [managing your torrent
downloads](http://addons.xbmc.org/show/plugin.program.utorrent/), surfing the
web, checking [the weather](http://addons.xbmc.org/category/weather/), watching
YouTube or Twitch.tv, automatically downloading
[lyrics](http://addons.xbmc.org/category/lyrics/) and (my personal favourite)
automatically downloading
[subtitles](http://addons.xbmc.org/show/script.xbmc.subtitles/).

Believe me, once you get used to quickly and easily getting the subtitles you
won't want to go back to surfing the web, downloading the files, extracting
them, pulling them to the player ...

[XBMC]: http://xbmc.org/
