---
categories: python
date: 2013/12/22 21:31:00
title: Python in the wide world week - day 7, the Web
---

And the first week, in which we explored some places where Python is used in
the "real world" is coming to an end. As
[yesterday](/blog/2013/12/21/python-in-the-wide-world-week-day-6-science/), we
won't look at a specific program or tool, but rather an area where Python is
used a lot - the web.

## Why would you use Python in web development?

Everything we talked about before this week (the readability, simplicity,
extensibility etc.), combined with [many web
frameworks](https://wiki.python.org/moin/WebFrameworks) means that you can
definitely find something suitable for your needs and use it easier then in
many other languages/frameworks.

The most known frameworks are probably [Plone](http://plone.org/),
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) and [The Pylons
Project](http://www.pylonsproject.org/), each of which is used by thousands of
websites (for partial listings you can look
[here](http://plone.org/support/sites) or [here](http://www.djangosites.org/),
but those listings only cover a small portion of all websites built from the
frameworks).

There are many famous users of the popular Python frameworks, such as
[NASA](http://science.nasa.gov/) and [FBI](http://www.fbi.gov/) (Plone),
[Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/dashboard/overview),
[Instagram](http://instagram.com/) and [The
Guardian](http://www.theguardian.com/uk) (Django) and
[reddit](http://www.reddit.com/) (Pylons).

Even if you do not want to use frameworks, there are loads of different
Python-based options for you. For instance, this blog uses
[Blogofile](http://www.blogofile.com/), one of the [Python static site HTML
generators](http://gistpages.com/2013/08/12/complete_list_of_static_site_generators_for_python),
to generate static HTML which can be pushed on a server - you can even use
[GitHub pages](http://pages.github.com/) as a free host this way.

Personally, I've used [Plone](http://plone.org/) and
[Kotti](http://kotti.pylonsproject.org/) quite a bit at [Termitnjak
d.o.o](http://www.termitnjak.com/) and I have checked out
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/),
[Bottle](http://bottlepy.org/docs/dev/) and [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/).

## End of the week

Well this is the end of the first week, so congratulations to those who stuck
with it to the end and hopefully you learned something new :).

