---
categories: python
date: 2013/12/18 23:38:00
title: Python in the wide world week - day 3, Blender
---



## [Blender]

<a href="http://www.blender.org/"><img src="/images/blender_logo.png" alt="Blender"></a>

### What is Blender?

[Blender] is a free and open source 3D animation suite. It supports the
entirety of the 3D pipeline—modeling, rigging, animation, simulation,
rendering, compositing and motion tracking, even video editing and game
creation. Advanced users employ Blender’s API for Python scripting to customize
the application and write specialized tools; often these are included in
Blender’s future releases. Blender is well suited to individuals and small
studios who benefit from its unified pipeline and responsive development
process. Examples from many Blender-based projects are available in the
showcase.[^1]

Even though at the beginning Blender was often criticised as not being up to
industry standards (especially on it's interface), but since Blender 2.5 was
released in 2011 with a completely reworked user interface it can easily sit
beside the major players such as Maya, 3ds Max etc.

It is also noted as the most all-around solution with the most extensive
feature set (and keep in mind that Maya and Max are around 3500$ each, so
that's another plus for Blender).

Blender has been growing in popularity even in the [media
industry](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blender_(software)#Use_in_the_media_industry),
with more and more bigger projects opting to use it instead of the "standard"
tools.

### Where is Python used?

The feature that makes Blender stand out the most is it's Python API, which
allows anyone to easily create scripts/addons, many of which are [integrated
into later
releases](http://wiki.blender.org/index.php/Extensions:2.6/Py/Scripts). Since
I'm totally clueless about anything design-related, I can't tell you which ones
are good and useful, so I guess Google is your friend here :).

With Python and the included `bge` module you can even use Blender to create
games.

### Examples of videos

Since Blender is primarily an animation suite, you can find many [great Blender animations](http://www.blenderguru.com/27-inspiring-blender-animations-that-will-make-your-jaw-drop/) on the web.

Every 1-2 years the Blender Foundation announces a new creative project to help
drive Blender and it's innovation forward. Below you can find it's latest project, the [Tears of Steel](http://mango.blender.org/). Ignore the (imo) so-so acting and (again, imo) not the best story and focus on the animations ;).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/OHOpb2fS-cM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

PS: It even comes in a [Chinese
version](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXzYqf_fuw4), using their own actors
but re-using the animations.


### Examples of games

While there are quite some games made in Blender, not many of them achieved
global recognition. Below is a trailer from [Dead
Cyborg](http://deadcyborg.com/index.html), a Steam Greenlit free donation based
oldskool sci-fi adventure game. I've read good things about it, so I'll be sure
to check it out when I get the chance.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/pex1R67yLXA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I've also found Mattline1's [blog](http://mattline1.blogspot.co.uk/) and
[videos](http://www.youtube.com/user/Mattline1) really nice - lots of nicely
implemented good ideas, it seems he is very talented. I found his [Sphere
shooter](http://mattline1.blogspot.com/search/label/Sphere%20shooter)
especially interesting, and I believe it nicely shows off that Blender can
actually be used for games too.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/ieP7uja8UiI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



[^1]: Taken from <http://www.blender.org/about/>

[Blender]: http://www.blender.org/
